= [Instructor] One of the most crucial components
for observability,
is actually metrics.
I use metrics almost exclusively to trigger pages
because of the detail, speed and fine grade support
you can drive through metrics measurements.
Let's take a look at using micrometer in corcus.
So let's go back into our room service
and open up a POM file,
and we're going to add a couple of dependencies.
The first one is quarkus micrometer,
and the next one,
is micrometer
registry
Prometheus
from IOTA micrometer.
Now there's more than one metrics registry
but that's the one that we're going to use.
cause that's the one that you most often use
with Kubernetes when dealing with metrics.
So now that we have those dependencies in place,
let's go to source main Java.
Let's go to our room resource.
And we're going to inject into our class,
a meter registry.
And what we're going to do is we're going to add a simple
timing element
to our method.
So we're going to go back to our get all rooms method
and we're going to do a timer,
We're going to do this to the room service,
and we're going to tag this,
with a method
and that method is get all rooms
Now, we could tag this with more elements
If we wanted to, for instance
if there is bed info populated, but for now, this is fine.
And then we are going to register
that component
to our meter registry.
Now, we need to create a start element
we need system dot nano time to do that
now, right before we return
we're going to do a timer dot record
system dot nano time
minus start time.
and the time unit
will be nanoseconds.
Now, obviously this is just one type of metric
The timer.
You have many different things
like gauges and stuff that you can use.
But again, for the purposes of this demo
the timer works sufficient for what we need.
So now that our application has started
let's go to our web browser
and we're going to go to local host 8080 slash rooms.
And let's run that a few times.
Now let's send in a,
slow it down a little bit by sending in a bad info request
If we go to local host
slash metrics,
you'll see in Prometheus's format
that we now have a rum metric dump that can be scraped.
Let's take a look and see if we can find our room service.
So you'll see here that we had a room service max
and then we have another one, forget all rooms at four,
we got all kinds of data
about our rooms so we can continue scrolling down
and you'll see them based on the number of calls we made.
And that's precisely the value
of metrics is it's a long running estimate
of things like how long it takes
and what data's coming out of your system.
and you can use that to trigger alarms
and do many other things from an operational perspective.
Now, we just touched on operations
but operations really is a critical aspect
of using a framework to build applications
especially when running in a microservices
or cloud native container as workplace.
So I highly encourage you
to spend some time
and read through all the docs around operations
within quarkus
as well as everything else we've touched
and keep in mind that those docs are there to help you.
There is a lot of information
that we haven't even talked about
within quarkus that you can use in your day-to-day job.